All right, let's make TypeScript help us.
So, I think the first one I
wanna fix is this one here.
So, here it's saying object is possibly
no and that's because getPost,
what if there is no slug by the name
of the thing that we're doing?
So, if I say 90s mixtapes,
then we're reading no of title,
TypeScript told us what would happen and
we didn't listen, right?
That's why we're getting
this runtime error.
So, this could be null.
So, what we're gonna do is,
I say if there's not a post,
then throw a new error, post not found.
Now, this is not the end solution,
we'll come back to this later but
this is what we're gonna do for now.
So that now our server can give us
a much more useful error message
than the user saying,
cannot read no property title of null or
whatever, at least it will say hey,
post not found.
See, that's at least a little
better user experience but
we're gonna make one
that's even way better.
But then, TypeScript also is happy about
that, because it knows that there's no way
that a falsie value can make it
past that If statement, right?
So, we're good there.
Now on the slug, the slug could
be undefined now, why is that?
That's super frustrating.
Why could it be undefined?
Isn't Remix gonna make sure that
the slug is always a string?
Yes, Remix will.
But TypeScript doesn't know that.
And so this is one area where we have to
do something a little extra to appease
TypeScript.
And I'm actually totally cool with
this because it's very easy for
somebody to come in here and
change this to anything, right?
So, it would be cool if
we could teach TypeScript
that convention because then it
could protect against even that.
But because we can't, then we have to do
something like this, if not posts params
slag then throw new error, missing slag,
yeah, whatever you want it to be.
And so now, we get post not found.
I can't actually reproduce a situation
where the slug is not defined unless I
change this to this.
And now there we go missing slug, right?
So now, TypeScript is not angry with
us and it can actually help us out and
we get autocomplete,
which is kinda nice, cool?
Okay, the last thing that we're gonna
do is render out the actual content.
I think I skipped over,
I did these in the wrong word, but
we write our content in Markdown and
we wanna turn it into HTML, so we're going
to use this library called Marked to
do that processing for us, it's pretty.
As far as Markdown parsers go,
it's pretty simple one.
So, we'll get our, oops,
HTML from Marked with post.markdown.
And then here's our HTML.
And then, here let's just get
our post in HTML out of here.
And then we're gonna use
dangerously set inner HTML, and
I know that sounds really scary but
it really is not, and I'll explain why.
So, what we have here is HTML.
Let's see what happens if I say div HTML.
I'll start with the problem first.
So, this is what happens if you
just stick HTML in a div in any
modern framework,
it will automatically escape that for
you so that you can't have
some sort of user come in and
be like, script alert, gotcha, right?
We don't want people to be able to do
stuff like this, that would not be good.
So, React, Angular, all of them,
will automatically escape this for
us so that, or at least they may not
automatically escape it themselves, but
they ensure that it gets into the DOM
without actually executiong as HTML.
This is good because you wouldn't want,
this actually happened to me in real life.
You wanna hear a fun story?
So, when I was at a company called Domo,
we had a chat feature and
I got a bug across my desk that said,
hey, there's a cross site.
This is called cross site scripting.
That's what we're avoiding here.
There's a cross site scripting
vulnerability in our chat, you need to fix
that, because if you don't, then somebody
could steal somebody else's credentials
and see all their data and that would
not be good especially a demo because
it's like a company business intelligence
thing as like literally all the data.
So, as a good engineer,
I need to reproduce it first, right?
To make sure that I know what
what bug we're talking about.
So, I reproduce it by typing in the chat,
script alert,
you done been hacked, is what I said.
But I did it in our
production environment.
Luckily, it was just like our
own internal instance of Domo.
But there are 500 people who on every
page, they would go to anytime they
moved to a different page,
the chat would load up again and
they'd get this alert that said,
you've done been hacked.
And we hadn't yet implemented delete chat
yet, [LAUGH] and so I'm running around for
two hours trying to,
somebody please delete this chat message.
Yeah, that was an embarrassing day.
And that was Backbone JS, so
Backbone did not auto escape stuff and
that's why we had the vulnerability,
to begin with.
So, for that reason,
all modern frameworks will
not just take HTML as face value,
you need to either
escape it yourself like
you are taking user input.
Or if it's not user input,
which is the case here,
we're the ones writing the markdown.
So, we're not gonna hack ourselves,
that would be silly.
So, we are actually safe to use
dangerously set inner HTML.
But that's why it has
the prefix of dangerously,
is because you have to know
what you're doing to use this.
We know what we're doing, we're not
doing anything wrong, so we're fine.
Okay, great.
So with that said, here's my list,
and we've got UL allies and
on this one, okay,
first post isn't this great,
question mark, I think I have a semicolon.
[LAUGH] There we go, cool.
Any questions?
So here's something that's neat.
You might not have thought about this.
But this is all happening at runtime,
right?
No build time stuff.
We have, in our database, or our Markdown,
we're turning it into HTML and
sending that to the client.
So, not only have we saved,
I mean, we could probably
optimize this further to just
send the title, post.title.
There we go.
Now, we've really optimized what we're
sending to be only the stuff that we want,
but also we're reducing the amount of
compute the user's device needs to
do because we're doing all
that compute in our loader.
And in a world where we're talking
about mobile devices and stuff,
that actually is pretty significant.
Additionally, this library is not free,
but it's only being run on our servers so,
we don't have to pay the cost for
downloading of that library.
I think that's pretty rad, yeah.
>> If I use useLoaderData
in a child component,
will the loader only be executed once for
the top level component?
>> Yeah, so, we will not fetch data.
In fact, useLoaderData is not
what triggers the data fetch,
useLoaderData is called after
the fetch is already done.
So we don't even render this component
until the fetch is finished.
So yeah, you can call this as many times
as you want, no problem, no big deal.
Cool?
All right, that's Exercise 3.